Hi, my name is Greg Kroah-Hartman. I work with the Linux foundation as a fellow.
I am a Linux kernel developer. I release stable Linux kernels as well as doing (do) other driver development.
Linux releases development kernel about once every three months, I do the stable kernels about once every week.
I got involved with Linux many years ago. I used to use it where I worked.
I was a programmer. I invented embedded devices, firmware for embedded devices.
I had to interact my devices with all sorts of operating systems. Linux was just coming around. It was just getting USB support.
I was just creating a USB device. I had to get it to work.
I had contributed a patch to make the change and it was accepted and I was like hey, that's great!
Over time I submitted more and more patches and I wrote a driver for a device which
Linux didn't support because I was using Linux on my own desktop.
Suddenly, over time I realized that more people were using my device for free than
anything that I ever got paid for because the companies that I worked for never did very well.
And dot com boom started and there was more and more need for Linux developers.
I got a job being a Linux kernel developer full-time and I haven't looked back since.
It's been a great great opportunity and I really enjoy doing this.
Linux is an operating system and its core is just a kernel. It talks to the hardware makes the hardware work.
It makes it able for you to run programs and do what you want to do.
It's very unique in the fact that there are lots of other operating systems out there but our development community is very different.
We have over 2000 developers every year contributing to it from over 400 may be 500 companies.
It is the single largest software project in the history of mankind.
We contribute at the rate of about (what are we) about ten patches a day, twenty four hours a day, seven days a week, go into this code.
It's constantly updated, constantly revised, constantly changing because the world changes.
We have to react to a change in world. If an operating system stops change and of course if the world doesn't stop changing it will die.
Linux constantly is improved, constantly is updated in order to handle the changing world.
The more you know about Linux the better off you can be. Linux is used everywhere and we need help using it.
There is almost no part of the world that does not use Linux. If you have skills in Linux we have tons of jobs out there.
We need people who are programmers, we need people who are sys admins, we need people to document the stuff,
we need people to test the stuff and it's a fun thing to play with. You can play with it and create things out of it.
So you also can have fun while you are doing it.
And it will help feel that you are part of a larger community that's doing something great.
This course will teach the fundamentals of what Linux is; how to use the command line; how to use the graphical interface.
It is self-guided; you can sign up for it at anytime and take it at your own pace. Thank you for your interest in Linux.
I hope you enjoy the course. Linux is a wonderful experience. It provides great opportunities for jobs,
for future, for creating new and wonderful devices. I hope you enjoy this.