There is no other event like it anywhere on the planet, period.
So much energy and ideas are embraced. The community and the enthusiasm, is just amazing.
This is the end all, be all; number one that I look forward to each year.
Linux foundation events are unique because it's a place where the developers of the industry and community meet real-time to make real technical decisions.
It's a lot of very high value and influential people in the open source community.
And it's a great way to take a litmus test of what the Linux community has to offer.
Speakers say things here that they will not say anywhere else.
The Linux foundation events are just a good exchange between the industry and the community.
The most important thing about Linux and other free and open source software development is the collaboration between human beings.
We work better when we know the people we are working with.
The networking opportunities have been fantastic.
You get a lot more done in a couple of days than you do all years just in exchanging emails and phone calls.
A lot of different opportunities to both communicate with people that you already know and to meet some people who might have different perspectives.
I think that the overlap of Linux Con and Cloud Open is bringing (you know)
a good group of different people together to kind of collaborate and have interesting conversations.
I think that's a unique aspect of this conference that we don't get anywhere else.
One of my favorite things about Linux con is that it is always in a different city.
You get a little bit of the experience of wherever you are.
Linux foundation events are really fun events with a really interesting mix of people.
In New Orleans, we had the floats it was like being in a New Orleans parade, out on the streets, in house with the blues.
The parties sometimes are more effective than the sessions that the truth.
It's a time for people to build a relationship so that they can work even more effectively down the line.
If you want to help shape the future of the products and services that you are consuming it's a great place
to give input to the people who are creating your next generation of technology.
Your world will change with each person that you meet; everyone's open.
They are sharing the opportunity for you to learn about what they are doing.
It's exciting!
Lots of people lots of interaction. Great community.
It's a bit of everything.
Geeky happiness!